# IEC-61850 overview
IEC 61850 is a standard that provides methodology and modelling of substation automation systems towards a full digital solution. Within IEC 61850, the substation automation system is modeled using the object-oriented method. Each device/equipment has its corresponding object. The relationships of these objects are also well defined. The standard lays a solid foundation for a digital substation system, as well as a smart grid. Substation automation systems (SAS) require certain functions in order to monitor, control, and protect the system. These functions are distributed among the IEDs based on their responsibilities in the system.  

An IED can be any kind of microprocessor-based device that manages/oversees the actual electrical process in the substation. This can be protection relays; bay controllers; meters; transformer tap controllers. It can also be a level 3 gateway that aggregates lower-level data and sends it to SCADA or EMS via the IEC-61850 MMS model.

## Protocol aspects
- Standardized vendor data-interoparability focuses on the device level. Enables usage of the same protocol for multiple IED vendors in the same substation.
- Focuses on IntelligenElectronicDevices(IED) multi-vendor inter-oparability.
- Provides a unified language for substation IED configuration: Substation Configuration Language(SCL).
- The Generic Object Oriented Substation Event (GOOSE) control block allows fast and reliable exchange of data from one IED (Publisher) to several peer IEDs (Subscribers) in order for the IEDs to perform a distributed action.
- The Manufacturing Message Specification(MMS) provides supervisory control/monitoring communication to RTU/PLC/SCADA systems over TCP/IP.
- The Sampled Values(SV) transmits real-time values to control systems or other IEDs; such as current and voltage.

## Security Weaknesses.
- GOOSE:
  - No authentication.
  - No authorization.
  - No confidentiality.
  - Since sequence numbers and timestamps are not cryptographically protected, replay attacks are simple.
  - GOOSE is multicast, so any entity who manages to access the VLAN can send out messages that will be considered legitimate by receiving devices.
  - IEC-62351-6 adds authentication/authorization/integrity, but not confidentiality since control messages are generally in themselves not considered sensitive in that manner. Interoparable with GOOSE.
- SV:
  - No authentication.
  - No confidentiality.
  - CRC check only for standard errors, and not intentional attacks.
  - IEC-62351-6 mitigates security concerns in the same manner as for GOOSE.
- MMS:
  -  No authentication.
  -  No authorization.
  -  No integrity.
  -  No confidentiality.
  -  IEC-62351 enhancements provide same protection as for GOOSE/SV, with the addition of authencticonfidentiality and logging. Note that MMS is not a deterministic RT control functionality.

The choice regarding whethet to use the secure version of the GOOSE/SV protocols depends on how timecritical a certain IED communication flow is. 

## Purdue Levels
- SV and GOOSE on level 1-2 for deterministic RT control and data exchange.
- MMS for SCADA related aspects.

## Example Usecases
- 
